this is what I think should happen the
rapist even somebody who raised a woman
in a fur coat if that ever happens I
think that his penis and his ball should
be seared off with a cuticle remover
slowly then I think two skewers should
be shoved into their eye sockets
yo what up hopefully this video isn't
too lightweight for you guys I've made a
lot of really heavy content on YouTube
lately and some people love it some
people hate it what could I tell you
this video is really responding to two
different strands of thought on the one
hand a recurring theme especially in the
conversations I have with other vegans
face to face is of offering a sort of
broad and general excuse that well
whatever problems may exist in vegan
political discourse the fundamental
value we can return to is that we need
diversity we need all kinds of different
people promoting all kinds of different
messages all roads lead to Rome and it's
all positive in as much as it promotes
the vegan message now all right really
honestly a heart of hearts is this
anything more than a way of ending an
awkward conversation on my channel I
have encouraged people to go to school
stay in school get an education lead a
meaningful life get a meaningful job etc
can you really say that this message is
equally as valid as other vegans
encouraging people to just drop out of
school immediately to just live on
permanent vacation to just promote a
career on YouTube to travel wander
around Thailand aimlessly etc now it's
no joke I've mentioned specific examples
on my channel I have also received email
from people and I've seen a few a few
videos on YouTube but I've received
email people I'm not going to name
obviously talking about their own
experience that they had a period of
their lives either in university or
while they were still in high school
when they were really seduced by this
when they really felt that they should
drop out of school or they actually did
drop out of school because of the
guidance being given to them by leaders
in the YouTube community now my advice
may not be great my
people apathy but it's not the same it's
not equivalent and if we're being honest
with ourselves we can't just say in an
offhand way well all roads lead to Rome
as long as people are promoting veganism
it doesn't matter whether their advices
to drop out of school and be a bum or
their advices to stay in school get an
education now as most you know watch my
channel among the most prominent people
who went back to school because of my
influence was this guy the vegan cheetah
so he's an ex-convict he's got a lot of
problems in his life he's been trying to
improve his life and turned around and
he really thanked me profusely and
directly some videos I made before I'd
ever talk to him some videos I made
really directly inspired him to turn his
life around and go back to college and
he's getting some kind of college degree
related to journalism and digital media
now and he's taking on a whole different
view of his future and his career and
before that he was directly under the
influence of people like durianrider and
freely in imagining himself being a
rebel being anti establishment and in
just pursuing a life as a social media
personality now I can't claim I've sold
any of the eyes problems I can't even
say my advice was that great but my
point is the notion of this kind of
equivalence falls apart I'm not going to
repeat here that the different warnings
I gave a bad nutritional advice
obviously we can't pretend that all
nutritional advice is equally valid we
can't pretend that all promises of you
know beauty & health promises that
you'll cure incurable diseases are not
equivalent to real science based medical
approaches to veganism that's another
asymmetry but first and foremost from my
perspective when you have a situation
like Gary Yourofsky sitting down and
freaking out on camera sitting down and
incoherently saying that people should
be stabbed murdered raped you know these
kind of violent in name breakdowns Gary
Yourofsky who is not a teenager who is a
grown man uh I don't see how anyone can
look at that and honestly say well all
roads lead to Rome well as long as it's
promoting V
it's okay and it's all equally valid
revolutionaries throughout history we're
all crazy crazy enough to fight the
system to stand up in a court of law and
not apologize for breaking the law to go
up against cops judges politicians
society in general and if you want to
say that well you still support violence
I've never denied that I support
violence it's going to be in the very
near future that somebody bust into a
slaughterhouse or vivisection lab with
guns and they tell the slaughterhouse
workers you take those knives off those
pigs threats right now I'm going to
shoot you there's no way that a pro
violence message can really be equal to
an anti-violence message there's no way
that a democratic participatory approach
to veganism can be equivalent to a
violent and fascistic approach to
veganism and I don't use the word
fascist lightly some of you already know
this about me I'm one of the only vegan
channels to directly address the problem
of neo-nazis within veganism nobody else
wanted to do it now some of my critics
who kind of fault me for very minor
things who people who have their own
YouTube channels one of things i can say
back with them is yeah look I may be a
terrible human being but at least I was
bold enough to really take on and
address the problem of neo-nazis and
since I made that video I know of at
least two more channels people who were
vegan who became either neo-nazis or
crypto Nazis you know uh you know not
quite as clearly committed to like Adolf
Hitler but still way out on that end of
the political spectrum and involved in
anti-semitism and racism what have you
so that's going on there is no way we
could say oh well you know all roads
lead to Rome as long as they're
promoting veganism it's all equally
valid no obviously there are hard limits
obviously we have a real problem that I
feel a guy like Gary Yourofsky brings
into sharp focus
with you know the lunatic fringe of
veganism being the most visible aspect
of veganism being in some ways the most
influential aspect of veganism and we're
in danger of that being the definitive
image of veganism is certainly in Israel
a Gary Yourofsky being the guy who got
on television his particular form of
insanity probably has defined how
millions of people think about veganism
for better and for worse and you know of
course you can point to some elements of
his influence that are positive but yes
I am really sincerely concerned about
the negative aspects and I'm even more
concerned about it because just like
with the the issue of the actual Nazis
and veganism nobody's talking about it
then people are making these excuses and
carrying on now so I said way back at
the beginning of what five minutes ago
there's sort of two questions I want to
roll into one video here the other is
something that came up very briefly in
my um my conversation with zaria you may
have noticed that conversations area I
paused and reflected I said look you
know I can remember the first vegans I
saw on YouTube and that did in some
sense shape what I saw as normal or as
positive or beneficial discourse in this
game we play backtracks light layer look
why do I mention this now why do I
include it with this question of look
all all roads lead to Rome as opposed to
being really honest and reflecting on
the hard limits to what is and isn't
positive or acceptable within veganism
as a social movement to some extent
whenever you're criticizing something
else as unacceptable or abnormal you
have some implicit notion of what
normalcy is and you know I'm not such a
snob I do think and I've said this in
recent videos I said this in
conversation with vegan cheetah you know
I do think there's a role for just
vacation videos I do think there's a
role for weight loss and lifestyle and
the stuff unfortunately currently it's
suffocating the life out of veganism
there are problems of disgust in the
length this channel I don't need to
repeat them but I think there's a role
for comedy
silliness and for all kinds of diversity
within what vegans have on YouTube
however as I've already been saying
there are hard limits there is nothing
comedic about Gary Yourofsky sitting
down on a mainstream news channel and
ranting about killing people and
stabbing them in the eyes and these you
know dark violent fantasies he has this
is not comedy it's not satire it's not a
positive part of veganism and there has
been a code of silence I think the vast
majority of you guys who are watching
this you who have your own YouTube
channels now you you ask yourself you
look in the mirror why you never
addressed it I think it's because in the
one hand people felt a debt of gratitude
towards Gary Yourofsky that they felt
they could not criticize him because of
the positive contributions made and on
the other hand people are just in the
reckless pursuit of Fame and they would
much rather try to to you know attach
themselves to Gary Yourofsky star to try
to ride his wave of popularity to try to
make money basically or raised our
profile rather than really being honest
or rather than really dealing with the
negative implications this has okay so
in this context you know for me it's
worth reflecting on what I think is
normal given you know even in that
discussion with zaria we were talking
about I don't really regard the beauty
centered form of veganism as normal now
on the one hand that reflects my own
experiences back around the year 2000 s
that's now 16 years ago when veganism
just was not about diet and weight loss
beauty and sorry people didn't even say
vegan back then people said vegetarian
and animal-rights or you know animal
rights and ecology you know different
terms use the word vegan was not that
popular yet and I think I think most the
people weren't one thing either but they
were somewhere on the on the vegetarian
spectrum and say back then I refuse to
buy leather back then and so on i mean
it's just it just a different different
era and I've already made videos talking
about that um but look I said to zaria
the first youtubers I saw they were not
is ending themselves as objects to
seduce you they weren't they weren't the
beauty was just not the focus of the
message it wasn't important and you know
of course beauty's in the eye of the
beholder and so on but one of the people
who shaped my expectation the very first
person I saw talking with Venus on
YouTube was Shelley one two three i will
put a link below I think she's been
forgotten now it's more than five years
ago and I'm not saying her videos are
brilliant I'm not saying they influenced
me they didn't know they had no real
impact on me but that was the first time
when I sort of had I saw the reality of
veganism being you know packaged and
presented and argued on behalf of on
YouTube where YouTube was the public
forum for the presentation these ideas
but I say that that gave me a sense of
normalcy compared to which people like
freely never were normal you know um so
for me that's worth reflecting on and
the other channel I want to I want to
link to here is a young woman named
Claire but if you you know cut a cow's
throat or if you take a cow's baby away
from her so you can steal her milk they
do feel pain they are cendien so we can
make such a big difference with our
choices the choices that we make every
day we can help to make this world more
nonviolent more love it we can help to
erase discrimination and exploitation so
you can do that why don't you want to
why don't you want to make the world a
better place so she's now 20 years old
but she's been on YouTube for several
years and I remember secret videos
several years ago when she was probably
17 so at age 17 she was putting up
rational rigorously argued statements on
behalf of veganism and she was uploading
them both in English and in Chinese now
if you're really honest with yourself if
you take the time to click through the
link and take a look at Claire's videos
I'm not saying they're all genius and
not saying they're all brilliant
but honestly this woman at 17 was a
better advocate for veganism than Gary
Yourofsky ever has be so the point is if
we can't be perfect vegans if we can't
be perfectly nonviolent all the time we
can still get really close we can still
be ninety-five percent on my little
ninety-nine percent online why are you
going to say that we can't be a hundred
percent so I'm just going to be zero
percent it doesn't mix in and trying to
be nonviolent really trying really going
vegan really trying to do the best you
can makes such a big difference nature
is my lecture but is that a good thing
do you want to say nature is violent and
just live violently everywhere no that's
not good we have a choice to live
non-violently and we should make that
choice we should try and live as
non-violently as possible but if you
have in your mind an excuse for gary
Yourofsky that oh he's a young guy you
know he just he has mood swings you know
we should just overlook this or forgive
this no Gary Yourofsky is conduct in
having these kinds of hysterical violent
breakdowns in news interviews and just
on his own youtube channel where he can
edit it you know she doesn't even have
to release it nobody's forcing him and
in the interviews he's given to bite
size vegan that type of behavior it
compares badly to any mainstream
politician whether it's a local mayor or
someone like Jeb Bush we all think Jeb
Bush is an idiot well if Jeb Bush is an
idiot compare Gary yahtzee them how much
stupider how much less disciplined is
Gary Yourofsky because uh it's very
difficult to think of a mainstream
politician of these breakdowns but
really sincerely this young woman Claire
to take a look at her content she was
doing better at age 17 then Gary
Yourofsky was as a grown man so again
for me there are lessons there about
what's normal not what's optimal not
what's excellent day but just you know
it is possible for people to address
these issues engage with them in a
sincere meaningful way
without resorting to you know making a
product out of their own sexuality and
without resorting to these kind of
extreme violent tactics or what have you
there's just nothing inevitable about
that but the last thing I got to say
here is the same as the first thing to
make progress even just as isolated
individuals you know forget the movement
to make progress just as a bunch of
people who are sitting alone in front of
the internet with a camera with a blog
with whatever you've got making any
progress on this issue actually does
start with admitting to ourselves no
it's not okay it's not the case that all
roads lead to Rome it's not the case
that all messages in support of veganism
are equally valid and should be equally
embraced just because this for veganism
the same way that we need to have a
refined critical awareness that we apply
to health information scientific claims
etc we need to apply to political claims
and yeah it reflects very badly on
veganism the paucity have any kind of
sincere critique in response to the
neo-nazis in response to Gary Yourofsky
in response to any of the other
outlandish examples that really matter
that reflects very badly on the state of
veganism today when you look at the
incredibly caddy shrewish
counterproductive self-hating infighting
that goes on over matters that are
completely trivial